Capstone Notes
PSDS 4900

Might be a good idea to work with public data sets!  Can be unclassified and not have to be NGA focused.

Highly encouraged to have NGA mentor/stakeholder, but no longer required.

Imagine everything you’ve done in 2xxx and 3xxx classes.  Bring together like final projects from classes, but up a notch.

DON’T GET POLISHED DATA!!!!  GET REALISTIC DATA SETS!   DATA.GOV, work data, etc.  Data carpentry is part of the process.

Dr. Scott will help make sure that it hits all the marks as we meet…. ex. build a dashboard - will show how to build predictive analysis

Data story - you’re building everything as you go through the process, not at the end.

Milestones 1 & 2 are email checkins.  

Milestone 3/Deliverable 1 is a word document.  Due April 2nd.

Milestone 4 - Real world data - look around, if I had this other information that I can bring in…

Milestone 5 - Refinement mode.   Polish visualizations.  Extensive validation testing.  Understanding how to tune parameters, etc.  Running models and visualizations so that you can get the best results.  Heavy lifting.  

Milestone 6 - Training & verification.   5 & 6 are deep data science after the carpentry from 3 & 4. 
	Deliverable 2 - Build up from 4, 5, & 6.  A big chunk of the technical report.  Due June 11th.

Milestone 7 & 8 are cleaning up loose ends.  

Milestone 7 - Make sure key aspects from data viz.
	Deliverable 3 - first draft of data story or technical report.  Build out the deliverables to make a tech report.  In the final project, you present a slide deck…. so build it out here and then turn into presentation.  Due July 1.

Milestone 8 - Finalize data story.
	Deliverable 4 - Due Aug 5.  Presentation on Aug 9-11.

Make sure to use GIT to track (gitlab or github) or NGA’s GIT repository.


Start building Milestone 3 now…. just keep sending updates to Dr. Scott as you work towards milestone 2.

Enrollment will happen 2nd week of August.  
MU process document will come out after that.


Meteorites impact database
https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/meteorite-landings
“That sounds fun and hard”
“what are things that limit you from here to there?  Even if it’s hard and the data doesn’t push you to that level, that’s okay.”
“A really good project.”